---
id: 54596384890
form: quote
date: 2013-07-04 18:20:46
tumblr: https://untitled.urbansheep.com/post/54596384890
title: 
tags:
    - post
    - цитаты
    - проигры
    - вся жизнь игра
layout: post-quote.njk
---

<blockquote>
<p>It may come as a shock to some of you that most gamers today can not finish the original Super Mario Brothers game on the Famicom. We have conducted this test over the past few years to see how difficult we should make our games and have found that the number of people unable to finish the first level is steadily increasing.</p>

<p>This year, around 90 percent of the test participants were unable to complete the first level of Super Mario Brothers. We did not assist them in any way except by providing the exact same instruction manual we used back then. Many of them did not read it and the few that did stopped after the first page which did not cover any of the game mechanics.</p>

<p>We watched the replay videos of how the gamers performed and saw that many did not understand simple concepts like bottomless pits. Around 70 percent died to the first Goomba. Another 50 percent died twice. Many thought the coins were enemies and tried to avoid them. Also, most of them did not use the run button. There were many other depressing things we noted but I can not remember them at the moment.</p>

<p>Some of the people seemed to be unaware that this was an actual old game that existed as they asked if the retro-style graphics were supposed to be a throwback to old Nintendo games.</p>
</blockquote>

<a href="http://www.p4rgaming.com/majority-of-gamers-today-cant-finish-level-1-in-super-mario-bros/">Satoru Iwata</a> (president of Nintendo)
