---
id: 128772456634
form: quote
date: 2015-09-10 15:20:23
tumblr: https://untitled.urbansheep.com/post/128772456634
title: 
tags:
    - post
    - цитаты
    - человечество безнадёжно
layout: post-quote.njk
---

<blockquote>
<p>This reminds me of an event which vastly contributed to my discouragement about academia, and which I think illustrates the vacuity with which certain editors of scientific journals treat the review of scientific works that may have taken years to perform. I was in a scientific meeting in Switzerland a couple of years ago and I was having a discussion with the editor of one of the two most important scientific journals in the world.&nbsp;He was asking me and my PI about different young scientists to know what we thought about them. He did not seem so concerned about the quality of their work or the insight they provided on the world. He was asking about their reputation. I remember a question that he asked very seriously but that was hilarious to me:</p>

<p>“And David Eagleman, I saw his book, is he a good one?”</p>

<p>The editor later proceeded to explain to us why he was inquiring about the reputation of these scientists: “I’m asking to make sure that I accept articles from reputable people. Because you see, at ******, we want to do real science, not Richard-Dawkins-type science.”</p>

<p>It is hard to express how many mental facepalms I have experienced in my head when he completed that sentence. A swirl of facepalms, a googol of facepalms +1, an embedded infinity of facepalms.</p>

<p>I&nbsp;remember discreetly shedding some tears for an&nbsp;hour that night at&nbsp;the conference&rsquo;s bar, not because that man was unjustifiably mean to&nbsp;one of&nbsp;the&nbsp;most intelligent scientists in the&nbsp;world, but because I&nbsp;had come to&nbsp;the&nbsp;realization that our system of&nbsp;scientific publication is&nbsp;governed by&nbsp;people who have no&nbsp;idea what knowledge&nbsp;is.</p>
</blockquote>

Jean-François Gariépy в <a href="https://www.facebook.com/jfgariepyneuro/posts/466442776860755">фейсбучном посте о том, что он думает о современной академии</a>.
