---
id: 24804348906
form: link
date: 2012-06-10 13:17:53
tumblr: "https://untitled.urbansheep.com/post/24804348906"
title: "Pixar Story Rules"
linkurl: http://www.pixartouchbook.com/blog/2011/5/15/pixar-story-rules-one-version.html
tags:
    - post
    - списки
    - рассказывание историй
layout: post-link.njk
---
<ol><li>You admire a character for trying more than for their successes.</li>
<li>You gotta keep in mind what’s interesting to you as an audience, not what’s fun to do as a writer. They can be v. different.</li>
<li>Trying for theme is important, but you won’t see what the story is actually about til you’re at the end of it. Now rewrite.</li>
<li>Once upon a time there was ___. Every day, ___. One day ___. Because of that, ___. Because of that, ___. Until finally ___.</li>
<li>Simplify. Focus. Combine characters. Hop over detours. You’ll feel like you’re losing valuable stuff but it sets you free.</li>
<li>What is your character good at, comfortable with? Throw the polar opposite at them. Challenge them. How do they deal?</li>
<li>Come up with your ending before you figure out your middle. Seriously. Endings are hard, get yours working up front.</li>
<li>Finish your story, let go even if it’s not perfect. In an ideal world you have both, but move on. Do better next time.</li>
<li>When you’re stuck, make a list of what WOULDN’T happen next. Lots of times the material to get you unstuck will show up.</li>
<li>Pull apart the stories you like. What you like in them is a part of you; you’ve got to recognize it before you can use it.</li>
<li>Putting it on paper lets you start fixing it. If it stays in your head, a perfect idea, you’ll never share it with anyone.</li>
<li>Discount the 1st thing that comes to mind. And the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th – get the obvious out of the way. Surprise yourself.</li>
<li>Give your characters opinions. Passive/malleable might seem likable to you as you write, but it’s poison to the audience.</li>
<li>Why must you tell THIS story? What’s the belief burning within you that your story feeds off of? That’s the heart of it.</li>
<li>If you were your character, in this situation, how would you feel? Honesty lends credibility to unbelievable situations.</li>
<li>What are the stakes? Give us reason to root for the character. What happens if they don’t succeed? Stack the odds against.</li>
<li>No work is ever wasted. If it’s not working, let go and move on - it’ll come back around to be useful later.</li>
<li>You have to know yourself: the difference between doing your best &amp; fussing. Story is testing, not refining.</li>
<li>Coincidences to get characters into trouble are great; coincidences to get them out of it are cheating.</li>
<li>Exercise: take the building blocks of a movie you dislike. How d’you rearrange them into what you DO like?</li>
<li>You gotta identify with your situation/characters, can’t just write ‘cool’. What would make YOU act that way?</li>
<li>What’s the essence of your story? Most economical telling of it? If you know that, you can build out from there.</li>
</ol>
